All right.
So here we have a question once have a look at it says a pair of charge conducted plates produce a uniform
field of 12000 newtons per cool.
It's directed to the right.
OK so this is what we have over here.
The separation between the plates is 40 millimeters.
And we have an electron here is projected from plate a toward plate B.
And in this case we're also given some initial velocity of this value.
Kind of a big value right.
What is the speed as it strikes the other plate.
Okay.
And we've given you some data here for the electron.
OK.
So let's have a look at what's going on over here.
If we just draw that electron we just draw it over here.
So it has a charge of negative e and it has a mass given over here.
Now if the electric field points in this direction over here what's going to happen well imagine we
are going to draw the charges on the plates first of all if the electric field is pointing like this.
That means that this here is positive.
And what else.
This played here would be negatively charged.
All right.
And what happens to this electron.
Well initially it has a big velocity right.
It's given a velocity v zero.
The question is how fast is it moving when it strikes over here.
So what is the force acting on the electron.
As the electron moves I'm actually going to get rid of this for now because I really just want to do
a free body diagram over here.
So the force on this electron well again is being attracted by the positive it's being repelled by these.
So that means that the force on the electron has to be in this direction and that's it.
That's the only force acting on it.
So noon second law says you add up all the forces.
There's only one and that should be equal to the charge of the electron the magnitude multiplied by
the magnitude of the electric field.
And this here has to be equal to mass times the acceleration.
OK.
So our acceleration for our electron is E.
The charge.
The magnitude of the field and divided by the mass of this electron.
I know all the numbers here so in principle I could get a value for the acceleration of the electron.
Now I'm just going to make a note here saying that it is slowing down
so if the acceleration was big enough it might actually not even reach this plate.
So here I guess they're assuming that it does strike the other plate.
So let's go ahead and use one of our key nomadic equations.
If we're looking for the final speed and we know the distance one of them is this equation here that
the velocity squared equals to the initial velocity squared plus two times the acceleration and the
displacement.
Delta X.
Now in this case again the acceleration and the displacement are in different directions.
So one of these is going to have to be negative.
Right.
We're gonna take our coordinate system so that everything that's pointing this way is a positive value.
Okay.
So let's go ahead and substitute in our thing and at the end what we want is just the final velocity
so all we have to do is take the square root of everything here.
So let's substitute our values.
So we have our initial velocity which is right here two point zero times 10 to the seven.
You have to square that value plus two times.
Now again it's going to slow down.
So really at the end this term is going to end up being negative and that's because the acceleration
is pointing in a different direction.
Right.
The acceleration is pointing to the left but our displacement is to the right.
So the acceleration here should be minus E E.
Actually that's good.
Go ahead and substitute the numbers.
So you should get minus one point six times ten to the negative 19 the electric field is twelve thousand
and all of this divided by the mass of the electron which is nine point one one times 10 to the negative
31.
OK.
That is my acceleration and then multiplied by the displacement in this case it's 40 millimeters.
This is 40 times ten to the negative three.
OK.
Extend that square root.
There is a whole bunch of terms in here but at the end all we have to do is substitute in all our numbers
and just be a little bit careful when you evaluate this.
OK.
At the end I think we should get that the answer again.
It's got to be slower right.
So actually I could have right away it really eliminated those ones because it will slow down and then
we're left with three choices.
Put that in your calculator I think you should get choice B which is one point five times 10 to the
seven meters per second.
OK.
Here's problem two says electron is projected in this case it's going up over here with an initial velocity
of eight point seven times 10 to the 7 along the vertical y axis.
OK.
And that's kind of in between this plate here that has a separation of 10 centimeters or point one metres.
All right.
Now we have a uniform electric field in the x direction.
Okay.
So that's kind of shown over here.
If the magnitude of the acceleration is measured.
Okay.
This is measured what is the magnitude of the electric field between the plates.
Well again this one is pretty straightforward I think.
Right.
Again if we go back to our free body diagram again this electron here again the plates here are going
to be charge if you think about it should be charged like this again.
OK.
And negative on this side.
Now this problem gives you a lot of additional information.
However there is only one force acting on that electron and that force is given by the charge multiplied
by the field.
And that has to be equal to the mass times the acceleration.
All right.
Do we know the mass of the electron.
Yes we do.
OK.
What else.
We know the acceleration that's given in the problem and we know the charge.
So all we're asking for is the magnitude of the electric field.
That's this guy right here.
So let's just get an expression for it.
So it's a mass acceleration and divided by the charge.
Again we don't have to worry about the negative side that only tells us the direction but we know automatically
that the electron wants to go toward the positive plate.
So here we just substitute in all our numbers the masses nine point 1 1 times 10 to the negative 31
multiplied by the acceleration that was given in the problem right here.
Eight point nine multiplied by 10 to 15.
OK.
And the last one is divided by the charge.
That's our one point six times ten to the negative 19.
All right.
We have to substitute in all the values over here.
And I think you should get 50 1000 roughly.
Newton's preschool on.
So in that case the correct answer should be choice a Here's problem three.
It asks for the magnitude of the electric field that will balance a plastic weight that has a massive
two point one grams.
All right.
So here's our plastic weight.
And we're going to have a weight which is acting down.
That's equal to M.G. and that better be balanced by an electric force.
The electric force should be acting opposite and that there has a magnitude equal to 0 the charge saw
the charges Q In this case.
This case is a negative three nano coolant multiplied by the field.
Okay.
And that's it.
So the electric field if you were really to think about it the electric field should be in this direction.
We're only asking for the magnitude however and the electric feels in this direction because the force
is opposite because we have a negative charge.
Okay.
So we want to balance everything out here so we have QE equals 2 M G E bring the Q on the bottom over
here M.G. divided by Q All right.
Now all we have to do is just substitute in all the values the mass is two point one grams that's two
point one multiplied by ten to the negative three multiplied by a little G that's nine point eight and
divided by the charge charge in this case just the magnitude three times tend to the negative nine cool
ohms All right at the end of the day I think you should get a choice a which is six point nine times
10 to the 6:00 news per call on all right that's it for that one.
Let's go to next one last problem over here says that a proton is placed in an electric field with a
magnitude of eight hundred newtons per column what are the magnitude and direction of the acceleration.
Okay.
So here is a proton we know it has a charge of positive
so imagine now it's placed in a field which is just like this.
This is the electric field and the magnitude is eight hundred.
All right.
How would you draw a force on that positive Proton.
Again the force is given by QE and since the charge is positive.
Our electric force F has to be simply e multiplied by E and they're in the same direction because our
charge is positive.
OK.
So all we want to do now is just to determine the acceleration.
So if this is the only force acting on it.
Newton's second law says you add up all the forces and that has to be equal to mass times acceleration.
And again this guy here is simply the charge multiplied by the field has the equal mass times acceleration.
All right.
So this leads to one final expression for acceleration is the charge the field and divided by the mass.
All right let me give myself a little bit more space over here.
So the acceleration is the charge one point six times 10 to the negative 19.
Our field here has a magnitude of eight hundred.
And again the mass.
Now the mass of the proton is given its one point six seven multiplied by ten to the negative twenty
seven.
So you've got to put all that in your calculator.
And at the end I think you should get something that's going to be looking like this six point sorry
seven point six six multiplied by ten to the ten that's in meters per second squared.
Now so let's look at all these choices.
First of all this one here is the wrong magnitude.
Now what about the direction the direction we said has to be in the same direction of the electric field.
So can't be opposite.
Right.
Any choice with opposite here that can't be true opposite D also has opposite.
And this one here has a different magnitude actually so C is really the correct answer.
It has the direction that's in the direction of the electric field and the magnitude is also correct.
All right.
Good job.
Hopefully you got all those.